Trigger Condition	Character Number	Character Name	Character Description	Desire	Toy Type	Quandry Dialog	Give them what they ask for: Love Effect	Give them what they ask for: Hope Effect	Give them what they ask for: Joy Effect	Give them what they ask for: Parts Effect	Give them what they ask for: Appearances Effect	Propose a different solution: Love Effect	Propose a different solution: Hope Effect	Propose a different solution: Joy Effect	Propose a different solution: Parts Effect	Propose a different solution: Appearances Effect	Ignore their request: Love Effect	Ignore their request: Hope Effect	Ignore their request: Joy Effect	Ignore their request: Parts Effect	Ignore their request: Appearances Effect	Send them to the recycler: Love Effect	Send them to the recycler: Hope Effect	Send them to the recycler: Joy Effect	Send them to the recycler: Parts Effect	Send them to the recycler: Appearances Effect
	1	Mellie the Kind	Oldest toy on the island	Wants to hold up tradition	doll	"You are young, Mayor {$PlayerName}, but I have heard that you are merciful. I have been on this island more years than anyone. In that time, many of my friends have gone to the recycler. I miss them. My stuffing aches whenever I see one of their parts on a younger toy.  I am tired and worn, but my grandchildren do not wish for me to go. It hurts me to think they should see my parts when I would not be there to comfort them. Please, let me take one of the bath toys and sail far away. I do not expect to get anywhere before it sinks. But perhaps my grandchildren will have hope imagining that I am being played with again."  You could let her go, but perhaps she should be repaired instead. Her wisdom would continue to benefit the community. 		1	-2	-2		1	2		-3	-2	1			1	-1	-1	-2		1	1
	2	Mr. Roberto	Has generous circuits	Friend needs a battery	robot	"Mr. Roberto's best buddy in the whole world must have a battery transplant. Best buddy is down to one bar of power. Best buddy will not last much longer. Mr. Roberto could give buddy one battery. If do transplant, Mr. Roberto and buddy have 50% probability of never switching on again.   Mr. Roberto can take that risk to save buddy. Mayor {$PlayerName} tell Fixit Doll to do battery transplant."  You could order the transplant, or you could tell Mr. Roberto a lie that you will find a new battery for the buddy somewhere else.	1	-2			1		2	1	-1	-1	-1	-1	-1	1	-2		-2		2	-1
	3	Big Bang Bob	Thinks he's Robin Hood or something	Wants justice to be served	action figure	"You know who Big Bang Bob is? A hero, that's who. Throw me to the recycler. It'll make you just as bad as whoever burned down the orphanage. Baby toys crying in the street. Only a toy with no color in their paint could walk past that and not take action!  Those parts don't belong to the bank. They belong to whoever needs them. And they may still be on the street, but at least those baby toys can patch their burns and sew up their rips. Aaaaah! It just tears me up, seeing them like that. But you know what? You let me go, and I'll hunt down whatever fiend started the fire. Then we'll see some real justice."  The action figure wants you to let him go to mete out vigilante justice. Or you could show every toy that the rules exist for a reason, and give him a publicly humiliating punishment for the theft.  	-1		1		-1		-2	1		1		1			-1		-3	-1	1	3
Player hasn't already recycled Butch.	4	Murry	Bar Owner	Has had it up to here	bobble head	Mayor {$PlayerName}, you have got to do something about Butch. He comes to my establishment every night, gets buzzed out of his mind, and then pounds on my door at closing time until I answer. And then do you know what he does? He cries! He bawls like a little baby toy. And, to be completely honest, he usually vomits like one, too. I can't keep paying for all this dry cleaning.  He's really a nice guy but I think it's time for him to be recycled. I don't say that lightly. But, at this point, I don't think there's a better option for him. I know we could use the parts and I know he could use the rest. He'd go peacefully -- I just know it. Won't you consider it?  You could lie to Murry and promise her you'll recycle Butch.	-2	-2	2	1	1	-1	1	-2			1	-1	-2		1	-3	-1	1	1	1
	5	Sprocket	Has lost his vigor	Needs a new spring	wind up toy	Mayor {$PlayerName}, can, uh, you keep a secret? It's my spring, you see. It's just not, well, as sprung as it once was. I had a lot more vigor when I was fresh out of the mold. Now, nobody will want to play with me any longer. What good is a wind-up toy that's all wound down. Without a nice, tight spring, I'm no good to anybody.  Can we spare the parts, Mayor? Even just for a little while? Maybe an afternoon? Look, I wouldn't be gone for all that long. Longer than four hours and you can call somebody to come after me. Won't you do it?  You can suggest to Sprocket that he accepts his new reality and that, while he's different, he's no less valuable than he was before.		1	1	-2	1	1	1	1		-2	-1	-1	-1		-1	-1	-3		1	1
Parts <3	6	Sockie	Snuggly hard worker	Is sorry about her eye	sock monkey	"Mayor {$PlayerName}! I'm so very very very sorry. I know it was wrong for me to get a replacement part that wasn't approved for ages under 5. It's very hard working in the pet rock mines with only one eye. The last cave-in ripped my arm stitching clean off. I only barely managed to save it.  As you know, parts are scarce. I thought having any eye was more important than being a good toy. But I can't sleep knowing I'm a bad monkey. Please, I feel so guilty. Punish me. Take my eye. Take everything. Maybe another toy can use my parts and be a better toy than I was."  You could give Sockie what she wants and recycle her, or maybe you could convince her to get new parts that won't make her a bad toy. 		-2	-1	2	1	1	1		-2	1		-1	1		-1		-2	-1	2	2
	7	Vroom	Likes to go fast	Has two drivers fighting	toy car	"The only thing better than feeling the wind in my grill as I drive along the beaches is doing it with a friend at the wheel. Rufus had driven with me a long time. He's a good driver. But he's been so busy lately. So Boogers has been taking me for rides. The way he laughs just brightens my headlights.   But now, they both want to drive me. And they don't want to take turns. Boogers says Rufus already got all the turns. Rufus says he should just chop me in half and let them both keep a side of me. Should I just tell Boogers that I belong to Rufus and can't drive with him anymore?"  Instead of sending Vroom back to Rufus, perhaps you can convince Rufus to let Boogers drive both halves of Vroom from now on.	-1		-3			-1		2		-1	-2				1	1		-2	1	-1
	8	The Don	Real Estate Developer	Wants to dam the Teddy District	rubber ducky	"I'm glad to see this island under new management - it's sorely needed. Look at this dump! That's why I'm here, boss. This tired island needs some new development. We've got a PR problem. I mean, "The Isle of Misfits?" -- that's an uphill battle. So here's what I'm proposing: we need more waterfront property. I know what you're thinking already. The perimeter of the island is chock full of primo real estate. There's no more room!  Let's dam the River Pick-Up Styx. It'll flood that eyesore of a Teddy District and create miles and miles of new waterfront. The average rent on this island will skyrocket. Think of the economy, boss! This is a win-win for everybody. Sure, the Teddy Bears will have to move but they'll get over it."  You could instead give him a parts subsidy to build more affordable inner-island housing.	-3	2			1		3		-3	-2	1	1			-1	1			1	-2
	9	Rufus	Union Boss	Is going on strike	lego creature	"I don't need nothing from you. Don't get me wrong. I'm just here as a courtesy. The Blocks Boys are going on strike. We've been breaking our backs for months trying to building Mallard Place for The Donald and he's been skimming our wages. My boys can't put bricks on the table like that.  We got our permits and we're going to go out there and get what's ours. Just keep your government goons out of our business."  You could help The Donald find some scabs. Mallard Place needs to be built.	-1	1		-2	 	-2	1		-2	1	-2	1			1	1	-1		1	-1
	10	Babs	Party planner	Claims she wasn't involved in doll disappearances	fashion doll	"So what if another Kendoll has gone missing? Nobody likes those sour pusses anyway. Not my fault they can't find their way around. I lent him the Dreamcar convertible last night and I haven't seen him since.   Now, Mayor {$PlayerName}, if you don't mind, Midge is waiting for me. Your inauguration party isn't going to plan itself."   You could let her go, or threaten to recycle her until she tells you where the missing Kendolls are hidden.	1		3	-1		1	1	-2	-2	-1		1	-1	-1				-3	1	-1
The player did not, or has yet to, agree with The Don.	11	Boogers	Neighborhood Boss	Is looking to start a turf war	teddy bear	"Look here, boss. I get that you're in charge of the whole town. But me? I'm the boss of the Teddy District and I got a problem with these dolls building a house in our neighborhood. Us Teddys gotta look out for our own kind.  We don't want no dolls on our streets. We got it bad enough in the teddy district as is."  You could usher in a new era with the first Doll Homestead Act. Grant even MORE dolls permission to live in the Teddy District. Grow the neighborhood. Expand the local economy.	-2	-1	1			-3	2		-3	1	-1	1	-1			1		1	1	-1
Player Age > 14	12	Babooshka	Mother with many children	Wants help with her children	matryoshka	"I'm so sorry to bring them with me. I know this is important, but I just can't leave the little ones home alone. They need so much attention.  There's another one on the way. A little one, I mean. I can feel it growing. Won't pop out anytime soon. Could you ask the Fixit Doll to crack me open and pull it out? I can't handle having another one to care for. Better it go peaceful-like than be unwanted."  You could ask the Fixit Doll to crack her open, or you could try to find another matryoshka that might adopt the new little one.	1	-1		-2	1	1		1		-1	-1	1			-1		-1	-2	1	-1
	13	Oblivi	Confused magician	Doesn't want his head messed with	rubiks cube	"I tell you, Mayor! It ain't decent. No it ain't. They want to mess with my head again. I won't let 'em.   I know my tricks ain't what they used to be. Sometimes I can't flip the colors the same anymore. But it don't give them the right to mess with a toy's configurating. My dementians are just fine. I'm not as mixed up as I look."  You could assert Oblivi's right to refuse treatment for his confusion. On the other hand, you could force him to get his head straightened out. 	-1		-2	1	1	-1		1	-1	1	-1				-1		-2	-2	1	1
	14	Kevotchi	Is in a neverending cycle	Wants to pull the plug	tamagotchi	"Mayor {$PlayerName}, I am begging you to recycle me. I can't do this any longer. They love me at first - they all do, really. But in the end it's all the same: they get bored, they forget to feed me, and they abandon me. Do you know what it's like, Mayor? To starve to death? To waste away from loneliness? To die in a giant pile of your own poo, riddled with so many diseases you've lost track? I do.  I don't want this any longer. I'm sick and tired of dying, Mayor. I'm better off as parts."  You can suggest to Kevotchi that he can take his lives into his own hands and get his circuitboard rebooted to get a fresh perspective.		-2	 	1	-1	1	-2	1	-1	1	-1		-2		1		-2		1	-2
	15	Mother T. Rexa	Nun	Parts to repair orphanage	toy dino	"Please, I beg of you, won't you think of the children? The orphanage has burnt down and now the baby toys have nowhere to sleep. I know that parts are hard to come by these days but some things are more valuable than the bottom line, no?  Please, don't let these baby toys go hungry on the street."  You could send all the kids to work in the pet rock mines instead.		2		-3	1	-1	1			-3		-1			-2	-3	-3		1	
Butch hasn't been recycled yet.	16	Butch	Under arrest for public indecency	Loves exposing his battery pack	furby	"I didn't do it! I swear! You gotta listen to me Mayor {$PlayerName}! Does this look like the face of a liar? I didn't expose my battery pack to anybody. Don't listen to Kevotchi, or Babs, or Mellie ...or Mother T. Rexa's baby toys!  I mean, look, that last one might be true. But, it was an accident! You gotta let me go. I'll never do it again. I promise."  You could this waylaid toy another chance, or you could glue Butch's battery back shut for good.	1	-1	-2			-1	-2		-1	-1	1		1		1	1	1	1	1	-1